This website is dedicated to documenting and publishing works and work in progress from an exhibition entitled 'BodyBuilding. Inefficient tool building for quantified beings'. BodyBuilding was a process-driven group exhibition curated by Hackers & Designers, with the aim to investigate the intersection of technology and the agency of the (human, post-human, trans-human, non-human) body from a maker's perspective. 

Together with scenographer and architect Thomas Rustemeyer Hackers & Designers reflected on their platform function. The 'platform' became a support structure, which could serve as a stage, but also a ramp, a shelter and has been thought of as a space that can be used rather than looked at. 

The physical and interactive structure, through which visitors were able to move, view, experience, and interact with the different artworks was on view only for a short duration due to the outbreak of COVID-19.

To preserve and contextualise the collaboration with the different artists and tool makers we present here some snippets, insights, making offs, how-to's drawing connections between these works. 

The platform's transition to the browser, structures and connects the works in different ways. Feel guided by suggested hyperlinks or drift freely. Find ON the platform Kiki Mager's work on Gait recognition technology. 'Collective Gait' is an interactive, process oriented work, which uses the application of gait recognition as a starting point to unfold the complexity behind human motion capture technologies. 

IN the platform you can find Nazanin Karimi's work 'Sunburned Land', which took great influence on the angle of the platform.  

Under the platform you will find the work by the collective The Underground Division (Helen Pritchard, Femke Snelting, and Jara Rocha). Their work ROCK REPO is a repository of digital and physical artifices questioning inhuman materialities and how they matter [in] the world, the crushing exploitations and extractions of normative 3D processes of geocomputation, and the act of translating between the 'physical' and the 'digital'. 

ON AND AROUND the platform you will find the ephemeral, temporal practice of H&D represented through the 'platform' design itself drawing together resources that informed the different works. 



